 The Homekeeper
(Dedicated to the memory of the author's son Zhenechka)
Chapter 1
How I got myself a human.
Kuzya the Cat's story.
I have been living in this world for so long, and still wonder how people can be so limited, narrow-minded and arrogant. Homehow they believe that they  are the crown of creation, the kings of nature and all that rubbish. It makes me laugh how convinced they are of this nonsence. Unbelivable, but they are sure, that they are the ones who keep us cats as pets - while in reality, of course, everything is completely different. And my own story is a perfect example of it.
Let me start, perhaps, with the fact that I showed all the signs of an extraordinary mind even in my childhood. I can even say in my early childhood. And while the other five of my brothers and sisters were just drinking mummy’s milk and sleeping in our soft basket, I already began to think about my future. While licking us and putting us to bed, our mummy also explained to us how the world works. And her purring helped me to realize that those huge two-legged hairless creatures who  look into our basket and make funny sounds now and then are, in fact, not as useless as they seem at first glance. It turned out that nature created them so that we, cats - the real kings of nature, please keep it in mind! – have quieter, cozier and more comfortable living. Mum explained that people, of course, are extremely stupid and often annoying, but they provide us with warmth, peace and delicious food. For this, you can tolerate their silliness  and other minor inconveniences, such as their stupid “puss-puss-puss” or the desire to play with you and cuddle you when you are absolutely not in the mood for it.
Haven't you forgotten that from day one I was blessed with an extraordinary mind? And therefore, quite quickly I began to understand not only the language of cats, but the language of humans and other creatures. We - cats can understand better than anyone else those who wander around the human race and whom people call evil spirits. We just call them neighbors... However, let's talk more about it later. In the meantime, I want totell you about how I was choosing a human for myself (people name the word “master”, which is a big mistake). From the conversations of those two-legged creatures who were always walking next to our basket, I quickly realized that, alas, we were not meant to stay with our warm mother for a long time. Each of us, mother’s children, was planned to be given, as they said, “in good hands.” And then I realized that I had to choose these hands myself - otherwise I could regret it much later.
The first to be rejected was an extremely unpleasant family with a nasty, curly-haired boy. When he saw me, he screamed: “I want this red one!” and tried to get me from the basket. But I didn't get confused and immediately grabbed his hand with my claws. They did not seem kind to me at all. I couldn’t do otherwise - it was written on the boy’s face that, if he drag me home, he will not give me a minute of peace, and I couldn't agree with this plan. My character, if you haven’t realized this yet, is independent, and I was going to live by my own laws, not by the rules of any two-legged people. So that family considered me too aggressive and preferred one of my sisters, the plumpest and laziest, who didn’t care much about anything in this world as long as she had enough food in her bowl.
The next candidates for my servants... ok, ok, let it be your way, for my masters, were a young married couple. It looked like they had just got married, as they were constantly touching the brand new rings on their fingers, holding hands and couldn’t stop looking at each other. Of course, it is very touching (in its own way), but I immediately realized that they were not suitable for the role of my servants at all. If  two people are busy only with each other, the third one will clearly be odd. Well, I didn’t want to be the third at all - I was going to be the first and only the first. So I got under the sofa and sat there until the couple left, taking my tabby  brother with them. All I hoped for was that the lovebirds would at least sometimes stop their cooing and remember that they have to feed him.
But in the end I got a stroke of luck. When she came in our apartment modestly, I immediately realized that this was the one I had been waiting for all this time. Sweet meant she would take proper care of me. Modest also, she would not force me to do what I don't want to do. And clearly lonely - that meant, no naughty children and whimsy husbands who will demand her attention. Attention, which from now on by all means belongs only to me!
